5-year-old Shams eyes are a portal
to the Past she cannot forget there
are the streets and homes scarred by War
this building where she recited her final
prayers and then there is the indelible sight
of her father and sister shot dead before her
eyes sh's mother saah who suffered
Burns as a child will never forget that
day but there's more to their story than
tragedy and loss in war Tor Gaza sham and
sa's story is unlike any other we have come
across in 10 months of War that's because
saah doesn't just accuse Israeli troops
of killing her husband acram and daughter
Yasmin an Israeli soldier may also have saved
her life on November 24th the week-long truce
between Israel and Hamas begins thousands of
people begin heading back to their homes in
Northern Gaza sa and her family are among them
but as they approach the salatin neighborhood
where they lived they find themselves
walking alone and then shots ring out
her husband soon decides to crawl away
to try to find help but moments later he
is shot again fatally sah lies on the ground
bleeding cradling her eldest daughter yasine
[Music]
as a mother I mean you must have felt
absolutely helpless in that moment
yasine soon died in her mother's arms
for hours sah lies here with Sham
unable to move until she finally
finds the strength to crawl down
the street and into this nearby home
we obtained footage from that house
after our first interview with sah this
is the first time she and Sha are seeing
it and Sham begins to tell my
colleague air Salman what happened to
her an explosion then rocks the
bathroom Israeli soldiers enter
the house and call out in Arabic what happens
next is captured on muted body camera footage
provided by the Israeli military Two
Soldiers treating sana's gunshot wounds
the medic soon realizes her condition
is serious she needs to get to a
hospital Israeli soldiers carry saana
out of the building on a stretcher
her hands clutching sham nothing
about this footage should be be
extraordinary militaries must protect
and care for wounded civilians when
possible under international law but
in this war this site is exceedingly
rare for eight months sa and Sham have lived
in this Jerusalem Hospital their Journey here
was no less traumatic interrogation and
strip searches came before treatment at
an Israeli Hospital Israeli authorities are now
planning to send them back to Gaza next month
unless another country takes them in the Israeli
military for its part told CNN in a statement that
sa and her family were caught in the crossfire
the IDF says its soldiers issued verbal warnings
after the family stumbled upon a concealed
military position drawing a militant attack
the four people who entered in the area were
caught in the intense exchange of fire between
the terrorists and our troops the troops did not
open fire at the four people nor did they aim at
them I wonder what would you say to that
one soldier if if you could see him again
sana's pain is as raw as ever and seeing her home
again in footage film this
spring brings a flood of
emotion mundane objects
are transformed into relics
and saana is taken back in time to
the life she will never get back and
Jeremy's joining us now from Tel Aviv
Jeremy very very powerful story I want
to know whether there's any update to
the fact that you report the IDF says
they're going to send her back with
her daughter is that is that really
possible as of now Israeli authorities are
planning to send s and Sham back to Gaza at
some point early next month but as I understand
it if a third country comes in and says that they
will take them in then there is an option here
for them to not go back to Gaza and I do want
to stress what that could mean if they were
sent back to Gaza I spoke with Sham actually
just in the last sorry I spoke with Sana in
just the last hour and she told me that she
is terrified of going back to Gaza terrified
of what life would be like if she were living
with her family who are currently living in
makeshift shelters they've been displaced
four times in Gaza already so far during this
war but most of all she is terrified about what
going back to Gaza could mean for her daughter
sham uh you know I first met sham five months
ago and and the girl that she is now is very
different from the girl she was 5 months ago
she has opened up so much more and her mother is
terrified that should they go back to Gaza all
of the progress that she has made since then uh
could effectively be erased in an instant it is
incredible how resilient children can be given
half the chance but I want to know what about
the bigger picture in terms of a ceasefire
for everybody's sake uh transfer of hostages
and prisoners um there's all sorts of leaking as
you know and Reporting um of blaming and finger
pointing at the Netanyahu government for for
not pushing these ahead even within the Israeli
establishment there are criticisms for the way
this is going and even Egypt has been leaking that
they don't think the Israelis want a a
ceasefire what do you think is going on
H how much do you how much store do you set
by what the Americans are saying that it's so
close it is so hard to know who or what
information to believe at this stage and so
I think we have to just kind of keep an open mind
about various different possibilities there's no
question though that it very much seems like the
Americans are the most kind of optimistic the most
gung-ho about this current negotiating process and
at times it really does feel like they are almost
trying to will this uh ceasefire agreement
into existence you know yesterday we heard
the Secretary of State Anthony blinkin saying
that Israel has accepted this bridging proposal
which is intended to bridge the gaps between the
Israeli position and the Hamas position but at
the same time we are still hearing doubts in the
Israeli government about Israel's full commitment
uh to the current version of the ceasefire
proposal and in addition to that Hamas is
saying that they believe this bridging proposal
is effectively caving to a series of Israeli
demands which they view as total non-starters so
right now it's it seems difficult to imagine how
a deal could come together this week uh which is
what the United States has said their goal is um
but it is clear that at least negotiations
are continuing and we expect the Secretary
of State Anthony blinkin as he arrives in Doha
cutter to get a better sense from the cutteries
who are the key interlocutors with Hamas about
exactly where their head is at behind the scenes
so these negotiations certainly continuing
very hard to see where they go from here